h2. Introduction

ar_orderable is a small ActiveRecord addition that makes ordering of results easier and cleaner.

Supported features are:

* Ordering by an attribute in associated model (@belongs_to@ or @has_one@)
* Ordering by multiple attributes
* Defaults to case-insensitive ordering (@a < B@), optionally case-sensitive
* Direction can be specified, defaults to ascending
* Protects from SQL injection by checking the attribute to order by is in a predefined set of orderable attributes

Tested with ActiveRecord 2.3.5. Should work without hassle using any 2.3.x version of ActiveRecord. Support for ActiveRecord 3.0.x is upcoming.

Supported & tested database adapters include PostgreSQL, MySQL and SQLite3. Might work with others.

h2. Installation

Using Bundler with Rails 2.3.x add this to your Gemfile:<pre><code>
  gem "ar_orderable", :require => "orderable"
</code></pre>

As plugin:<pre><code>
  ./script/plugin install git://github.com/mnylen/ar_orderable.git
</code></pre>

h2. Usage

In model:<pre><code>
class Game < ActiveRecord::Base
  belongs_to :developer
  orderable :by => [:name, :"developer.name"], :default => :name
end
</code></pre>

In controller:<pre><code>
Game.order(:name) # or Game.order("name")  
</code></pre>

To order by association's attribute:<pre><code>
Game.order(:"developer.name") # or Game.order("developer.name")
</code></pre>

To order in descending order:<pre><code>
Game.order(:"name!desc") # or Game.order("name!desc")
</code></pre>

To order in case-sensitive manner:<pre><code>
Game.order(:name, :case_sensitive => true)
</code></pre>

To order by multiple attributes:<pre><code>
Game.order([:"developer.name", :name]) # orders results first by developer name, then by game name
</code></pre>

If trying to order by an attribute that is not orderable by, it will order by the default attribute:<pre><code>
Game.order(:updated_at) # will order by name